For my game, I am going to be making a game following a burglar robbing different places. The game will have multiple levels and objects to steal with a timer that the player has to beat. My core mechanic of the game will be the theft mechanic. The theft mechanic will work in that there will be a set list of “objects” that the player needs to find “hidden” in different furniture in the house (dresser, table, cabinets etc) and that can be searched. There will be more searchable furniture than there will be furniture with the hidden objects so some will be empty, making this a game of finding all the objects and getting out before the timer ends. This will be accomplished with a ray being projected using raycast out of the player from the player position in the forward direction a small amount and if the raycast hits a searchable furniture it will prompt the player to “search” the furniture with a key press. If the furniture “has an object” in it (will be determined by a Boolean inside the furniture object) and if the Boolean is set to true it will remove the object from the UI list of objects to find and set the bool within the object to false so that the object can’t be found multiple times but the furniture item can still be researched. That is my core mechanic. Once all objects are found it will prompt the player to exit the area and once a player exits it will transition to the next level. All this must be done before the time runs out. 

For input, I will be using character controller for the player character moving and rotating using the arrow keys with the hAxis and vAxis. The input for the search will be a space bar press that will be prompted when the raycast hits an object. The visual style will be a third person camera view behind the player following the player as they move. The setting of the game will be multiple levels with gradually larger and more complex house settings with more rooms and both more searchable and non-searchable furniture as the levels progress. The furniture and player visuals will be taken from poly.pizza while the frame of the house will be built using probuilder. The UI interface during gameplay will include the list of objects still left to find, the timer with the remaining time left, and multiple other slider bars that I will discuss later in the document. The game will also include a start screen with the game title and start button. If the player wins it will take the player to a win screen with a button to restart the game and if they lose it will bring the player to a lose screen with a button to restart the level or the game. For audio, I would like to include music playing during the start screen but not during gameplay as I would like to imitate the silence of a burglary. However, I would like to implement sound effects when certain furniture is interacted with like door creaks for example to add some dimension to the play experience. I also would like to add a sound when the player is walking. 

Low Bar: For the low bar, I would include the core mechanic of the theft of course. I would also include the timer. Additionally, the low bar would include 2 levels. Movement animations for the player like walking is also at the low bar. For the low bar UI, the timer would be present along with the list of objects to find that would update when found. 

Target: For the target, I have lots I would like to get done. First I would like to include a flashlight mechanic, where the light would be changed from the default directional light to a light in front of and that moves with the player that functions as a flashlight. I would also like to have 3 levels for my target. Additionally, I would like to have a least 1 furniture object, but preferably more, that exhibits sound or animation or both when searched (ex: the cabinet creaks when you search it or the painting on the wall shifts). Also I would like to implement a slider bar that represents the “noise” the burglar is making that functions as when the player is moving the bar goes up and they have to stop moving to make it go back down and if the slider hits the max the player gets penalized (either their time is drastically reduced by half or a third or another value or they outright lose the level). Along with this, I would like to have audio when the player is walking so that the noise mechanic makes sense logically. Music playing in the start screen is also a target. Also, although this may not necessarily count as a tangible goal, I want the world of the game to look good as a target. I would like the space to have detail and seem nice looking. For example, having the house space have pictures on the wall or rugs on the ground, varying different textures on the walls and floor, décor objects like lamps or plates or vases to fill out the space even if they aren’t interactable. I want the space of the game to look clean and like there was effort and time put in. I know there are quite a few things in my target but ideally I would like to do all of these.

High Bar: For my high bar, there are a few things. First is to implement an on/off for the flashlight and flashlight battery so that the player can only have the flashlight on for so long at a time and has to wait for it to recharge before using and can toggle the flashlight on and off. Also, randomized placement for the hidden items so that gameplay would be different every time or random number of items within a range to find (ex: level 1 would have between 3-5 items, level 2 would have 6-9 items etc). High bar I also would like 4+ levels. Also in the high bar I would want to implement some sort of security guard element that walks within the area and if they “see” you (casts a ray forward from their position and hits the player) then you lose. Also I would like to implement a level select button on the start screen that would only be permitted to access if the player had beat all 3 levels.

Timeline:
By Classtime 12/5: UI canvas done, script for player and camera movement done, have most outside graphical elements imported to unity (textures, poly.pizza elements etc), start working on core mechanic with the furniture and player scripts.

By classtime 12/9: Finish core mechanic, begin constructing levels with probuilder and poly.pizza elements, begin scripts for noise bar, begin implementing animation/audio on furniture objects and character.

By 12/12: Finish start, losing, and win screens. Finish noise bar script and animation/audio. Continue level-building

By 12/15: Everything Done